python version conflict (#10)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/docker-introduction: _episodes/09-practical-examples.md

objectives:
  - Use docker in combination with real research software
keypoints:
  - Docker can be a solution to include the legacy script into your workflow with minimum effort.
  - You can use intermediate files to let different Docker containers talk to each other.
---

> You are a social science researcher and are trying to establish how many people in a list are below the allowed drinking age.

Reviewer: Could you add `>` and `> >` before the lines of the exercise so it is formatted properly?
Also, it needs to end with `{: .challenge}

Reviewer: Could you add a title to the exercise?

You are provided with a list of names and the corresponding birthdates.

A former PhD student already did the first part and wrote a program to convert birthdates into the current age of the people. Unfortunately it was written in Python2.7 and there is no way to upgrade it to Python3 (technically there is, but psssst).

> As you are on of the best and brightest you have written a code to check the current age of people against the legal drinking age and output all people who are below it. You wrote it in Python 3.6. Your professor/boss/overlord and the rest of the group use python 3.3 in the work and cannot use your critical piece of software.

Reviewer: ``
```suggestion
As you are on of the best and brightest you have written a script to check the current age of people against the legal drinking age and output all people who are below it. You wrote it in Python 3.6. Your professor/boss/overlord and the rest of the group use python 3.3 in the work and cannot use your critical piece of software.
```

Create two docker containers and provide your colleagues with a working docker workflow before they get angry!

## Preparation work

Before you start with a solution, you need to download the files you need:

- the old script [convertbirthdaytoage.py](/code/convertbirthdaytoage.py) written by the former PhD in Python 2.7;

> - the new script [heckdrinkinglimit.py](/code/checkdrinkinglimit.py) you wrote in Python 3.6;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the new script [checkdrinkinglimit.py](/code/checkdrinkinglimit.py) you wrote in Python 3.6;
```

- the [birthday data](/data/data_birthday.csv) required for this study.

> To simplify our workflow, let's put them all in the same working directory:

Reviewer: Is this something we need to clarify a bit more? Like, create a new folder and copy the files to it?

Author: Actually that is a good question. I would actually prefer to add all the data to the zip file, but that makes version controlling it so much harder.

~~~
$ cd <your-working-directory>
$ ls .
~~~
{: .language-bash}

~~~
checkdrinkinglimit.py  convertbirthdaytoage.py  data_birthday.csv
~~~
{: .output}

> ## Solution

> > Now let's think of our problem: we need to use the old script `convertbirthdaytoage.py` to get the age of people, and use the new script `heckdrinkinglimit.py` to find out if anyone is under the drinking age. Neither of the scripts is 100% compatible with your collegues' Python 3.3 environment. To make sure they have a smooth workflow, we need to run the old script under Python2.7 environment, and the new script under Python 3.6. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Now let's think of our problem: we need to use the old script `convertbirthdaytoage.py` to get the age of people, and use the new script `checkdrinkinglimit.py` to find out if anyone is under the drinking age. Neither of the scripts is 100% compatible with your colleagues' Python 3.3 environment. To make sure they have a smooth workflow, we need to run the old script under Python2.7 environment, and the new script under Python 3.6. 
```

>
> From what we have learnt, we know `DockerHub` provides images for both environments we need. What we need to do is simply pulling them down:
>
> ~~~
> $ docker pull python:2.7
> $ docker pull python:3.6
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>
> To verify, we can run:
>
> ~~~
> $ docker image list
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>
> After we have the images ready, we can run  `convertbirthdaytoage.py` to get the age of people:
> ~~~
> $ docker run -v $(pwd):/mnt -w /mnt python:2.7 python /mnt/convertbirthdaytoage.py
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>

> > Here we used the `-v $(pwd):/mnt` to mount our working directory to the Docker conatiner. `-w /mnt` is used to specify the working directory within the Docker container. Now if we check our current working directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Here we used the `-v $(pwd):/mnt` to mount our working directory to the Docker container. `-w /mnt` is used to specify the working directory within the Docker container. Now if we check our current working directory:
```

> ~~~
> $ ls .
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
>
> ~~~
> ages.json  checkdrinkinglimit.py  convertbirthdaytoage.py  data_birthday.csv
> ~~~
> {: .output}

> > A new file `ages.json` has been created, which contains the ages of all people. Now we can execute `heckdrinkinglimit.py` using another Docker image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A new file `ages.json` has been created, which contains the ages of all people. Now we can execute `checkdrinkinglimit.py` using another Docker image:
```

> ~~~
> $ docker run -v $(pwd):/mnt -w /mnt python:3.6 python /mnt/checkdrinkinglimit.py
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
> ~~~
> Daria is not allowed to drink because they are only 6 years old!
> Sherilyn is not allowed to drink because they are only 8 years old!
> Clint is not allowed to drink because they are only 14 years old!

> > Val is not allowed to drink because they are only 13 years old!

Reviewer: Some groundbreaking sociological results ;)

objectives:
  - Use docker in combination with real research software
keypoints:
  - Docker can be a solution to include the legacy script into your workflow with minimum effort.
  - You can use intermediate files to let different Docker containers talk to each other.
---

> > ## Python Workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ## Python Version Conflict
```

>
> You are a social science researcher and are trying to establish how many people in a list are below the allowed drinking age.
> You are provided with a list of names and the corresponding birthdates.
>
> A former PhD student already did the first part and wrote a program to convert birthdates into the current age of the people. Unfortunately it was written in Python2.7 and there is no way to upgrade  it to Python3 (technically there is, but psssst).
>

> > As you are on of the best and brightest you have written a script to check the current age of people against the legal drinking age and output all people who are below it. You wrote it in Python 3.6. Your professor/boss/overlord and the rest of the group use python 3.3 in the work and cannot use your critical piece of software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> As you are one of the best and brightest you have written a script to check the current age of people against the legal drinking age and output all people who are below it. You wrote it in Python 3.6. Your professor or boss and the rest of the group use python 3.3 in the work and cannot use your useful piece of software.
```

> 

> > Create two docker containers and provide your colleagues with a working docker workflow before they get angry!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Create two docker containers and provide your colleagues with a working docker workflow.
```

>
>### Preparation work
>
> Before you start with a solution, you need to download the files you need:
>
> - the old script [convertbirthdaytoage.py](/code/convertbirthdaytoage.py) written by the former PhD in Python 2.7;
> - the new script [checkdrinkinglimit.py](/code/checkdrinkinglimit.py) you wrote in Python 3.6;
> - the [birthday data](/data/data_birthday.csv) required for this study.
>
> To simplify our workflow, let's put them all in the same working directory:
>
> ~~~
> $ cd <your-working-directory>
> $ ls .
> ~~~
> {: .language-bash}
> 
> ~~~
> checkdrinkinglimit.py  convertbirthdaytoage.py  data_birthday.csv
> ~~~
> {: .output}
>
>
> > ## Solution
> > Now let's think of our problem: we need to use the old script `convertbirthdaytoage.py` to get the age of people, and use the new script `checkdrinkinglimit.py` to find out if anyone is under the drinking age. Neither of the scripts is 100% compatible with your colleagues' Python 3.3 environment. To make sure they have a smooth workflow, we need to run the old script under Python2.7 environment, and the new script under Python 3.6. 
> >

> > > From what we have learnt, we know `DockerHub` provides images for both environments we need. What we need to do is simply pulling them down:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> > From what we have learnt, we know `DockerHub` provides images for both environments we need. What we need to do is to pull them down:
```
